>> Mike North: In this next part of the
course, we're going to focus on solving
the problem of a disorganized
collection of seeds and
get back into the mode of domain modeling
and interviewing a domain expert or
collaborating with a domain expert or
an LLM to figure out, like, what is
the most productive direction we could go
for solving this problem for our user.
Before we get into this, though, let's
talk a little bit about some tips for
having conversations with domain experts,
and then we're gonna have a conversation.
First, it's very important to
develop a shared vocabulary with
all of the people you're collaborating
on discussing a problem space with.
What this helps.
What this makes sure that is
avoided is things that end
up being lost in translation.
And you want to make sure that you
have an opportunity or you give less
technical people an opportunity to
correct misconceptions you have.
So if you're talking to your gardener
about your plans to help organize
their seed catalog and you say, well,
what we can do here is we can take
these objects and we can put them
into an elasticsearch collection and
we'll have different dimensions
that we can use to search.
Put some denormalized data into
elasticsearch, you've already lost them.
It's not that difficult to take the names
of classes and the names of variables and
tie them to this common language that you
share with your subject matter experts.
When you're working with
agentic coding tools,
this also helps make sure that that you're
encoding more of the business problem
right into the source code of your app.
So you can have conversations that
are much more in line with like,
tell me about this seed packet, do we have
an estimated weight for the seed packet?
And it's going to be able to go and find
some terminology that joins the words used
in the problem space with the words that
are used in the solution to the problem.
So, tips for having discussions
that are conducive towards
developing a shared language.
You want to understand terminology that's
being used, ask clarifying questions,
make sure you really pin these things
down, and take the time as these
words are mentioned for the first time or
the second time, coming up with
a nice glossary of what do we mean when
we say this is very well worth it.
Use visual tools like this little
diagram tool that I've been using,
which is called Whimsical.
You could use a whiteboard, you could
use a notebook, whatever you wanna use.
Slides are great for diagrams.
This helps make visual
concepts more tangible and
try to avoid technical logic and
sorry, technical terminology such
as referring to database indices or
instances of classes like,
you want to see if you can
articulate the shape of how you're
thinking about the problem
in solution agnostic terms.
Tip number two, stay curious and open.
There's a failure mode for
these conversations which well
intentioned people that want
to collaborate can fall into.
If you're talking to a gardener and
you listen to them say a few things and
then immediately you propose, you're like,
here's how I think we could solve it.
And then you sort of blurt something out.
What's going to happen is the gardener
is going to listen to this and
they will pattern match against it and
they'll assume like you're a software
engineer, you're probably pretty smart.
The words you're saying
mostly make sense to me.
But sometimes you get into this trap where
they'll kind of accept that description of
a solution at a point in the conversation
where you haven't reached alignment,
where you haven't gotten to the point
where you can both say, yes,
the way we're thinking
about this is the same and
we've actually explored all
of the details in this case.
All right, I can give you a list of your
seed packets and you can use command F and
you can find basil.
Great.
I guess I can find all of
the basils I can advance.
If I have Thai basil and
sweet Genovese basil and all of this,
I guess I could control F and
all right, that's fine, but
what if there's incremental
data loading and
everything's not on the same page or
something like that.
You've offered a solution where sometimes
people accept it without knowing
that there will be inherent limitations
to what they're validated to.
So tips for avoiding falling in this trap,
focus on the business problems.
But what we mean here is like
focus on the problem space,
the business here is doing
something useful for a gardener.
Ask open-ended questions, right?
You wanna understand the why
behind the ask, like what?
What is the core pain that is experienced
which the solution is aiming to develop?
It's like aiming to mitigate that pain or
take that pain away entirely.
Document and respect nuances,
right, sometimes edge cases and
corner cases turn out
to be really important.
And while there is a point when you're
implementing a minimum viable solution,
you can start to say, all right, we
know we will eventually need to do this,
but for now let's not worry about it.
An example of this would be, well, we've
got this carnation plant in Our database.
And we want to represent that
you can affect the color of
a carnation based on
the factors of the soil.
So if you say, I want a blue carnation or
red carnation,
that's not necessarily about
planting the right seed.
That's about additives in the soil.
And so, all right, but
let's worry about that when we come to it.
Like, for the most part, we at least
need to capture this dimension of, like,
there are different species of plants.
Let's worry about that first.
Soil additives can come later.
It'll layer on, but
it's important to not lose track of it.
Request concrete examples for
complex scenarios.
And what I mean by this is have
your domain expert walk through
what they do in the absence of
your solution, step by step.
So if, for example, this is an accountant
trying to perform some calculation,
like literally get on a whiteboard or
get in a doc with them and say,
take me through, like, step by step,
you start with this number.
Then what happens?
Okay, you consult this spreadsheet,
who makes that spreadsheet, and
just walk through that process that can
become what is called a user journey.
That is the user journey of today.
The process your user goes through to get
from the beginning of having the problem
to scratching their own itch, if there
is a way to scratch that itch today.
And that lets you avoid missing things,
that lets you make sure you at least
understand the world of today and
especially complex scenarios as
you hear about these nuances,
dig into them, understand them, and
then obviously show active interest.
Sometimes you'll be dealing
with a dry subject, dry topic.
Some people get really excited about.
Well, I'll say I get really excited about
financial concepts, which is great.
I work at Stripe, it fits really well,
I'm genuinely excited when I go to work to
sort of wrap my heads around different
business models and things like that.
Other people would consider
that to be incredibly dry.
But you do want to make sure that you're
trying to tease out these details
in a way where you're sort of feeding
energy into the conversation.
And remember, presumably you all
are excited about building software, and
ultimately that's part of this.
And so try to tap into that enthusiasm,
iterate and validate regularly.
A key part of domain driven design that
I think is definitely worth keeping is
the idea of refining knowledge.
I know we all have probably
in our careers dealt with.
Somebody puts a big document together and
they say, this is the plan.
And then as you start working on the plan,
it changes course and
that document is like
no one's updating it.
It's just sort of rot.
It's important to sort of take a look
at the information you have as
you make progress on implementing
things and thinking through things.
And sometimes you have to write some
code in order to figure out like, well,
I have a set of new questions now.
Refine that knowledge, go back and
keep a nice concise source
of truth that you're willing to
keep up to date as you iterate.
This could be just like a one page
document with your glossary of terms or
a simple diagram like this where
we changed temperature range,
we combine that into a single
monthly temperature range entity.
Instead of having that intermediate
value object here, have something you're
willing to keep up to date, and
that is usually not a 30 page design doc.
A big tip here is summarize and
reflect concepts back to experts.
This is easier than ever with LLMs.
If you have taken a ton of notes, you can
feed it into something like chatgpt and
say give me the most
important bullet points here.
Focus is important.
At the ends of these conversations
there's an important step to take and
that is like you'll have a bunch of notes
and I want you to sort of like if you have
a half hour discussion with someone, what
you want to do is save the last three or
four minutes to with your
collaborators ask the question, what,
if anything, we've discussed is
worth keeping and carrying forward?
It's likely not all of it.
You've gone into some avenues
where it didn't yield anything.
Or you have a very elaborate carnation
related topic here that could
really be boiled down to for
now we're focused on plant species,
although other variations
of plants will exist.
Maybe that's all you need to do.
And that's the important
gem to mind in the org of
the full conversation that you had.